# Common Myths About Free Software

I feel following are top 5 common **myths** about **Free Software**. Description
about each myth is picked up from the reference link; mostly as it is. I wish
people find references useful.


### 1. Free Software is one that costs no money.

This is not so true. People often get confuse the word 'Free'. This free has
nothing to do with money as such. **Think Free as Freedom and not Free Beer**.

> When they call software "free," they mean that it respects the users'
essential freedoms: the freedom to run it, to study and change it, and to
redistribute copies with or without changes
> Matter fact FSF advices people who redistribute free software to charge as
much as they wish or can.

Reference: [https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/selling.html](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/selling.html)



### 2. Free and Open Source are same

No they are not.

> Open source is a development methodology; free software is a social movement.

> For the free software movement, free software is an ethical imperative,
essential respect for the users' freedom. By contrast, the philosophy of open
source considers issues in terms of how to make software "better"--in a
practical sense only. It says that nonfree software is an inferior solution to
the practical problem at hand. Most discussion of "open source" pays no
attention to right and wrong, only to popularity and success

Reference: [https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/open-source-misses-the-point.html)

### 3. All GNU/Linux distributions are Free Softwares

No, they are not.

In fact, Most of the GNU/Linux distribution contains blobs in a form of
proprietary firmwares or binaries.

> Blobs can take many forms. Sometimes, they will be provided in separate files.
Other times, they may be incorporated into the source of the driver itself--for
example, it could be encoded as a large array of numbers. But no matter how it's
encoded, any nonfree firmware needs to be removed from a free system.

To know about which GNU/Linux system would be a Free Software, refef
[http://www.gnu.org/distros/free-system-distribution-guidelines.html](http://www.gnu.org/distros/free-system-distribution-guidelines.html)

In spite of these strict rules we now have around 10 GNU/Linux distributions as
Free Software.

Reference : [http://www.gnu.org/distros/free-distros.html](http://www.gnu.org/distros/free-distros.html)


# 4. It doesn't matter if one calls GNU/Linux system by Linux

No, it does matter

GNU is a operating system and Linux is one of its kernels.

> If you call our operating system Linux, that conveys a mistaken idea of the
system's origin, history, and purpose. If you call it GNU/Linux, that conveys
(though not in detail) an accurate idea.

> Does this really matter for our community? Is it important whether people know
the system's origin, history, and purpose? Yes--because people who forget
history are often condemned to repeat it. The Free World that has developed
around GNU/Linux is not guaranteed to survive; the problems that led us to
develop GNU are not completely eradicated, and they threaten to come back.

Its not always required to call Linux by GNU/Linux. When you're referring
specifically to the kernel, you should call it Linux.

Reference:
[http://www.gnu.org/gnu/why-gnu-linux.html](http://www.gnu.org/gnu/why-gnu-linux.html)

# 5. There is not enough motivation to write a free software

There are plenty of motivation factors.

[https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fs-motives.html](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fs-motives.html)
lists a few.

I find Pragmatic Idealism the most interesting.

> People can have many different goals and values; fame, profit, love, survival,
fun, and freedom, are just some of the goals that a good person might have. When
the goal is a matter of principle, we call that idealism. If you want to
accomplish something in the world, idealism is not enough--you need to choose a
method that works to achieve the goal.

> Pragmatically speaking, thinking about greater long-term goals will strengthen
your will to resist this pressure. If you focus your mind on the freedom and
community that you can build by staying firm, you will find the strength to do
it. "Stand for something, or you will fall for anything.

Reference:
[http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/pragmatic.html](http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/pragmatic.html)

---

Updated on 16/11/2014
