# Bullet Breakdowns

![Make of a Gun ...](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/yogeshpowar/blog/main/images/bullet.jpg)

_There were never any issues with my Bullet 350 STD,
they were just calls for love to know her better._

Here are some of my bullet breakdown experiences


### Carburetor pin locked

On a sharp turn, I loosen the grip of the bike's accelerator to slow down but in
reality it started throttling. I somehow controlled the bike to find some issue
with the bike's carburetor.

There is a small pin, which is even visible from outside, which fits in the
vertical channel. That allows only the vertical movement of the fuel gate and
blocks all sideways movement.

The length of this particular pin, that is exposed inside the carburetor, needs
to be very precise. In my bullet case it had shortened a little bit causing some
side way movement for the fuel gate. In fact causing the cylinder or fuel gate
getting jammed causing excessive fuel flow which is just like throttling.

### Short circuit of spark plug


Spark plug converts electrical signals to ignite the fuel in the combustion
chamber. This actually means there are two electrodes with precise distance
between them to create a spark to actually jump from one to another.

If some dust from the fuel accumulates between this gap then spark is not
generated and fuel is not combusted. This was exactly what happened to me once.
So the running bike was suddenly stopped even though basic things like an
ammeter showing healthy current and having enough fuel were just fine.

It was actually two minutes of work to clean the plug but finding out it was a
spark plug issue consumed a lot of my time.

### Fuse short

I was on my friend's bike while on an expedition of the famous Leh-Ladakh.
Suddenly the bike's engine stopped running. With a lot of analysis we found out
that it was because of the break of a fuse. There are two places fuses are
present on Bullet 350, one on the left side box and one under the seat.

Replacement was easy but to discover there actually exists a fuse under the seat
took a lot of our time and efforts.

### Accelerator wire cut

This is a very common issue and happens because of wear-n-tear of the
accelerator wire near the hand grip. In such cases, the nut on the carburetor
comes handy. Just tighten it and it will make the bike throttle.

Fitting the accelerator cable is challenging itself and doing it the first time
all by yourselves would get you crazy.

### Clutch wire cut

There is no easy way out for this. First and foremost apply brakes to lower your
speed and then try lowering the gear without clutch. Neutral finder might come
handy in this case.

If your bike stops then start it and start pushing it. Whenever it gets some
speed then just change the gear to 2nd and then with slower throttle look on the
sideways for the cable replacement.

---

Updated on: 24/07/2016
