---
layout: posts
title: Are BE/ME Projects for Sale?
tags: Education 
---

# Are BE/ME Projects for Sale?

I have been going to some engineering colleges in Pune (India) as an external
examiner for Bachelor of Engineering (BE) and/or Master of Engineering (ME)
projects. So far the experience is good. Students are serious and most of them
usually prepare well for the presentation & demos. BE projects are generally
done in groups (group of 3/4 students) and ME projects are individually managed.

It's a well known fact that there is a market for such BE/ME projects. Past
students who have completed their project previously would not mind selling to
current students but of different colleges or universities in India. If you go
for 'chai' at the tea-stalls near these engineering colleges you would most
likely get the advertisement of these people/companies.

A friend of mine had gone to some conference in Pune for her paper presentation.
There was a girl from a different college sitting nearby who asked her if she
had any plan to write her own BE/ME final report. This means the project-market
has now expanded to a new product/service of report-writing.

Just questioning the students during their final presentation to test if the
project was really implemented by them is not enough. Maybe we need to think of
some other way to make sure students don't fall into this market trap.

Following are some key points which can help colleges to make sure their
students do their own work/projects/research.

* Students should not be allowed to do projects outside the college. Students
  can always do the internship but that should be different than their projects.
  The reason for this is there are many companies who would offer ready made
  projects along with certificates to students in return of some lumpsum amount.

  If some good company really wants to help research then they should have a
  tie-up with the college and the college should then offer a sub-project of the
  entire research for the students.

* Generally projects listed by colleges should be big enough to provide work for
  two/three or more years/groups. Idea here is as a whole the project would add
  value to the overall system. A sub project, for an individual or a group,
  would always take the entire project to completion. That way college can
  assign a professor for a particular project and over the years, he/she would
  surely be an expert in the topic and area. They will then be able to guide the
  students well.

* It's a waste of time and effort if the projects are done to optimize or
  enhance some proprietary solution. That way sharing code with other students
  will be restricted.

  The code should always have _FLOSS (Free/Libre/Open-source Software)_ license.
  This way the code can be shared between different students/teachers/colleges.
  And, more than that one can find out how much a student has really
  contributed.

* The reports should not be asked only after the completion of the entire
  project. Instead, reports should be collected periodically or in an
  incremental fashion. Eg., If there are weekly or bi-monthly meetings then the
  meetings should have updates in the form of a report. Thus the final report
  would be either a merge of all those periodic reports/docs or just build a
  final new report referring to these reports.

  It is also recommended to keep such weekly reports available online to the
  rest of the students. Interested students will get an idea of what's going on
  in their area of interest.

  A good example of such a project that was owned by colleges and which was done
  batch-after-batch is _'Mission SWAYAM'_. The Project was started by COEP in
  2008 and the satellite was put in orbit in 2016.


I remember my masters days from IIT. First year I was helping my guide
completing the project started by a student from the previous year who could not
finish due to some time limitation. I could learn so many new things from the
research topic.

My final year project was actually started by another senior from the previous
year and I proposed an optimization to his existing solution. There were weekly
meetings and minutes of the meetings were shared on the public Wiki with updates
and links for references. Same wiki helped me to write a better report.

On completion, the entire code base along with the report (including the Tex
source) was made public on the Internet. This helped juniors not only from our
college but around the globe. When you see some paper with reference to your
work it gives a great pleasure.

_Basically, process is more important than just the final product._

---
Updated on: 13/07/2016
