---
layout: posts
title: Online Teaching for Indian Schools
tags: Education
desc: Are Schools ready for online teaching? Why are they even looking beyond Diksha (digital infrastructure for school education)?
---

# Online Teaching for Indian Schools

Many (old) schools are troubling to adjust with this forced digitization of
education due to covid pandemic. Answers to everything can not be a WhatsApp
group or zoom calls.

This is a Howto on enabling minimal online education for schools.

### Have LMS if possible

For example, *Moodle* is feature rich learning management solution; its #FLOSS
and can even be self hosted https://docs.moodle.org/39/en/Features

But, using it and/or creating content on it has a learning curve especially for
the teachers &/ management who are used to highly engineered  and
addictive-by-design platforms like Facebook,  Whatapp or other social media
apps.

Besides there is also a cost of implementing  &/or maintaining these LMS
platforms which management is trying to avoid given the uncertainty of the
pandemic timeline.

### Have a minimal website or web-page or a blog page

Announcements can be made here and its link can be shared in SMS/Chat. Website
provides ways to correct the contents once posted.

One can explore good old blogging platforms like Github, WordPress or Blogger;
which are free and don't require viewers to have a login.

### Avoid remote classes using real time Internet tools

Forget the Internet, most students will not have access to computers or even a
mobile on specified time.

So dont design courses with live video/audio communication. Having it will
benefit only a limited few.

### Focus on remote assessment or progress

Let teachers decide a topic/subtopic with reference from the books and provide
questions or quizzes around that topic to assess the students progress. Chase
parents for tracking their child's progress.

### Creating a good video content is difficult and costly.

It's better to share links of existing good public domain contents than making
teachers create one.

Ideally, it should be the responsibility of the education board/universities to
provide the digital contents just like the books.

**[Diksha](https://merge.diksha.gov.in/)** has too good contents and its an
initiative of the National Council of Educational Research and Training
Ministry of Education, Govt of India. *They have done a really good work*.

### Don't share course content & videos on WhatsApp

Use WA for just chatting and sharing links. Create content on  Upload videos on
YouTube. Make comments/like disabled.

### Focus on inclusion

Students with access to resources like the Internet, computers or parents
who-teach-their-kids would definitely have an edge over others without it. In
this pandandemic situation, let teachers help the ones without right access.

If scaling is the problem, let the school run some mentorship program.
Senior-students/parents/volunteers can reach the specific students in need.

---

Updated on: 27/06/2020
